2024 user survey blogpost (#416)
OpenRefine/openrefine.org: blog/2024-12-20-2024-survey-results.md

---
author: Martin Magdinier
title: "OpenRefine 2024 User Survey Results"
---
Every two years, OpenRefine conducts an extensive survey among its users. Our sixth edition was live in August-October 2024. The 2024 user survey included a feature prioritization poll (see the [results](https://forum.openrefine.org/t/results-from-the-feature-prioritization-survey-2024/1847)) and questions regarding our new mission, vision, and value statement (see the [results](https://forum.openrefine.org/t/feedback-request-on-openrefines-draft-vision-mission-values/1619/8)). This year, we received 226 answers. This post focuses on the survey analysis.
<!--truncate-->

> You can refer to the previous year edition: [2012](http://googlerefine.blogspot.ca/2012/10/google-refine-usage-survey-results.html), [2014](/blog/2014/08/29/2014-survey-results.html), [2018](/blog/2018/07/16/2018-survey-results.html), [2020](/blog/2020/02/20/2020-survey-results.html) and [2022](/blog/2022/06/28/2022-survey-results). This year, we did not include the questions "How would you rate your skills using OpenRefine?" and "How long have you been using OpenRefine?" we will use them to correlate with other answers in a later analysis.  You can download the [anonymized answers here](/img/2024survey/OpenRefine-2024-User-Survey-Anonymized-Answer.csv). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the previous year editions: [2012](http://googlerefine.blogspot.ca/2012/10/google-refine-usage-survey-results.html), [2014](/blog/2014/08/29/2014-survey-results.html), [2018](/blog/2018/07/16/2018-survey-results.html), [2020](/blog/2020/02/20/2020-survey-results.html) and [2022](/blog/2022/06/28/2022-survey-results). This year, we did not include the questions "How would you rate your skills using OpenRefine?" and "How long have you been using OpenRefine?". We will use them to correlate with other answers in a later analysis.  You can download the [anonymized answers here](/img/2024survey/OpenRefine-2024-User-Survey-Anonymized-Answer.csv). 
```

So now, let's dive in. 

## Who are you? 

### OpenRefine Communities 

> Overall, our largest communities remain stable, with Researcher (38.50%) becoming the largest following Librarian (34.01%) and Data Science(25.66%), Wikimedian (25.66%), and GLAM (22.57%) close behind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, our largest communities remain stable, with Researcher (38.50%) becoming the largest, followed by Librarian (34.01%), Data Science (25.66%), Wikimedian (25.66%), and GLAM (22.57%) close behind.
```

> This year, we introduced OpenSource Intelligence (OSINT) and Civic Tech as default options. We had information that OpenRefine was used by those communities, and we wanted to confirm it. We have 10 CiviTech users and 6 OSINT respondents. So, while they are present and align with our vision of building a more informed world where working with data is easy and engaging, they do not represent the majority of our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year, we introduced OpenSource Intelligence (OSINT) and Civic Tech as default options. We had information that OpenRefine was used by those communities, and we wanted to find out to what extent. We have 10 respondents from CiviTech users and 6 working on OSINT. So, while they are present and align with our vision of building a more informed world where working with data is easy and engaging, they do not represent the majority of our users.
```
Rephrasing slightly for clarity.

[![](/img/2024survey/01communities.png)](/img/2024survey/01communities.png)

**Change in methodology**:  In this question, an individual may identify with multiple communities. In the previous year, we normalized the results based on the total number of communities selected. In 2024, 226 respondents identified, on average, with 2.48 communities (we received 561 selections). With our previous approach, we would have represented CiviTech as 1.78% of our user base (10 divided by 561). This year, we computed the results based on the total number of respondents (226), which allows us to say that 4.42% of our users identify as CiviTech users.

### Professional Usage

Last year, 85.1% of respondents indicated that they primarily use OpenRefine for work. This year, we provided a scale to measure the proportion of their usage in a professional environment. The results are consistent with those from 2022, as 71% of respondents reported using OpenRefine primarily in a professional setting (at least 70% of the time).

[![](/img/2024survey/02pro-usage.png)](/img/2024survey/02pro-usage.png)

### Languages used 

> The question "In which languages do you use OpenRefine (both its interface and the datasets you work with)?" reveals the diversity of our community, with 37 languages reported. English is less dominant than it was two years ago, dropping from 64.1% to 55.7% this year. German, French, and Spanish remain the top three languages, followed by a long tail of 33 other languages. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The question "In which languages do you use OpenRefine (both its interface and the datasets you work with)?" reveals the diversity of our community, with 37 languages reported. English is less dominant than it was two years ago, dropping from 64.1% to 55.7% this year. German, French, and Spanish remain the top three other languages, followed by a long tail of 33 other languages. 
```

Interestingly, 40.27% of users reported interacting in multiple languages. In our next survey, it may be beneficial to separate questions about the user interface from the dataset language.

[![](/img/2024survey/03languages.png)](/img/2024survey/03languages.png)

### Ovall Satisfaction and Net Promoter Score

In 2022, we asked our users to provide a general score for the software for the first time. On average, respondents rated OpenRefine a solid 8 out of 10!

> This year, instead of requesting a numerical score, we calculated a Net Promoter Score (NPS), which ranges from -100 to +100. OpenRefine achieved a total score of 63.72. Among respondents, 72.57% were promoters (those who scored nine or ten) and would recommend OpenRefine, while only 8.85% were detractors (those who scored six or below).

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to link "Net Promoter Score" to an explanation of it, as it is quite a niche term.

Author: I am adding the link to the Wikipedia page

> This year, instead of requesting a numerical score, we calculated a Net Promoter Score (NPS), which ranges from -100 to +100. OpenRefine achieved a total score of 63.72. Among respondents, 72.57% were promoters (those who scored nine or ten) and would recommend OpenRefine, while only 8.85% were detractors (those who scored six or below).

Author: ```suggestion
This year, instead of requesting a numerical score, we calculated a [Net Promoter Score (NPS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Net_promoter_score), which ranges from -100 to +100. OpenRefine achieved a total score of 63.72. Among respondents, 72.57% were promoters (those who scored nine or ten) and would recommend OpenRefine, while only 8.85% were detractors (those who scored six or below).
```

[![](/img/2024survey/04nps.png)](/img/2024survey/04nps.png)

### Feature Usage

When comparing this year's results to last year's, we found a significant increase in users who reported using OpenRefine daily, rising from approximately 10% to 33%. This raises the question of whether the change in survey methodology contributed to this increase.

Overall, we delved into greater detail this year than in the previous survey and assessed the frequency of use for different features and use cases of OpenRefine. This question format allows us to create more refined user personas by combining usage frequency with responses to other questions to help answer some design or product decisions. 

Some interesting findings include that 53% of users accessed a reconciliation service at least once a month, and 41% of users published to Wikibase, Wikidata, or Wikimedia Commons.

> The anomyized answer is [available here](/img/2024survey/OpenRefine-2024-User-Survey-anonymized-Answer.csv) if you want to investigate further (don't forget to share your findings on the [forum](https://forum.openrefine.org/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The anomyized answer is [available here](/img/2024survey/OpenRefine-2024-User-Survey-anonymized-Answer.csv) if you want to investigate further (if you do, please share your findings on the [forum](https://forum.openrefine.org/), we would love to read them).
```
Just nicer positive language.
